---
title: "AAP Manifesto 2014"
date: 2019-04-04
lastmod: 2019-04-10
type: post
discussionId: "AAP_2014"
disable_comments: false
categories:
- manifesto
tags:
- AAP
- 2014
draft: false
---

**Manifesto** - What does manifesto represent. _Manifesto is a public statement of someone's policies, views and intention do something which political parties put in front of people before elections._

Why do **Political Parities Need Manifesto** - _Manifesto functions as both a statement of a principles and a bold, sometimes
rebellious call to action. By causing people to evaluate the gap between those principles and their current reality, the manifesto challenges assumptions, fosters commitment, and provokes change._

Here, I will list down notable points **Aam Aadmi Party** had put in front of people before 2014 General Elections:

1.  #### BRINGING AN END TO CORRUPTION:

    1. **JAN LOKPAL BILL** - The Jan Lokpal was conceived as an independent empowered and accountable Ombudsman which could independently,credibly and expeditiously investigate corruption offenses of all public servants. The provisions of this bill include:

       - All public officials(including Prime Minister, Union Ministers, MPs) of the Union Government shall fall under the preview of the investigation of the Lokpal.
       - Any public official found guilty of corruption would be removed from their position and sentenced to prison. Their property will be confiscated.
       - Time bound investigation and trial will be introduced in cases of corruption.
       - The Lokpal will have power to initiate investigations and prosecution against those charged with corruption.

    2. **Swaraj Bill** - Aam Aadmi Party would legislate the Swaraj Bill which would devolve power to Gram Sabhas and Mohalla Sabhas, and thereby curb corruption at the local level.
    3. We will simplify all complex government procedures which provide opportunities to corruption.
    4. We will promote the use to information technology to promote transparency and reduce corruption.

2.  #### PROVIDING SWIFT, ACCESSIBLE JUSTICE TO THE COMMON MAN:
    Aam Aadmi Party is firmly committed to ensuring that a common citizen has access to a quick, fair, affordable and accountable justice system. Towards this end AAP will ensure:
    1.  Institute adequate number of **Gram Nyayalayas** which will consist of simple procedures. AAP is committed to ensuring that these will take cares of petty cases that affect common people in a speedy manner.
    2.  Simplify procedures(i.e procedural laws like CPC, CrPC, Evidence Act, Limitation Act).
    3.  Create Judicial Appointment Commissions(JAC) both at the State and National level to make selection processes of judges for the lower and higher courts transparent.
    4.  Set up fast track courts at all levels of judiciary.
    5.  Double the number of courts and judicial strength at sub ordinate level in five years.

3.  #### GENDER JUSTICE:
    We envision a world in which women will be acknowledged and treated as equal citizens in their own right; where they will not be governed by male-dominated values which determine their societal and familial roles. We can truly call ourselves a democratic, modern and progressive nation when we truly advance and deliever on women's rights, freedom, security, equality and empowerment. Towards this:
         
    1. Implement comprehensive and long-term public education pro-grammes to end the culture of gender-based discrimination and violence. These will include: SMS, radio and TV public service campaigns, accessible lesson plans for schools, modules   for training teachers and to train professionals such as doctors and lawyers.
    2. AAP will adopt zero tolerance approach towards sex selective abortion and work towards its elimination by strengthening legislation against its practice and implementation of strict punishments if violated.
    3. Ensure secure, dignified, remunerative employment for women. Action plans will be created to secure equal pay for equal work in all sectors.
    4. Ensure that each government agency produces a detailed action-plan to implement laws to end violence against women. Work with state governments to provide comprehensive services to women who are victims of violent crimes, helping them to fund  and set up 24-hour crises centers and safe shelters in each police districts, and to give swift financial compensation.
    5. Work with state governments to establish responsive and fair fast track courts for crimes of violence against women.
    6. Support 33% reservation for women in Parliament and State legislature, and ensure that women will be represented in all councils, committees and task forces related to policy and practice across the board.

4.  #### STUDENT AND YOUTH:

    1. AAP is committed to tapping India's demographic dividend through economic policies that focus on creating decent employment and livelihood opportunities for young women and men in honest enterprises across agricultural, manufacturing, or services sector.
    2. AAP seeks to afford greater opportunities for lifelong learning and skilling leveraging technology so as encourage both continued individual and national growth.
    3. Focus on job creation by promoting honest enterprise, this would be done by reducing corruption and streamlining the system of excessive regulations and licenses.
    4. We will not allow contractual employment for posts that require work to be done throughout the year. Examples include doctors, teachers, nurses, drivers, sanitation workers etc. Their jobs will be regularized which will allow workers to enjoy all benefits that permanent employees do.
    5. Strict implementation of minimum wages, strong action will be taken regarding any violations of the law.
    6. Non-discrimination with contract workers in terms of access to canteens, uniforms, company transport.
    7. Making sports and cultural activities an integral part of school education, provide children exposure to the diverse cultures that co-exist in India.
    8. Investment in public libraries in village clusters and small towns, their ongoing upkeep and maintenance to be done by Gram Sabhas.
    9. Setting up state-of-the-art facilities, equipment and infrastructure including multipurpose stadiums in villages and small towns & cities; encourage private investors to invest in Indian sports at the grass root level.

5.  #### PROTECTING THE INTEREST OF LABOUR:

    1. Ensure the creation of guidelines regarding their wages, working hours, or required facilities in place of work.
    2. Regularize their working conditions and spaces, to prevent ongoing harassment by the police.
    3. Ensure minimum social benefits such as access to health-care, old-age pensions, accident cover. Explore possibilities for evolving contributory schemes.

6.  #### INTERNAL,EXTERNAL SECURITY AND WELFARE OF EX-SERVICEMANS:

    1. Integrated approach to all three services, involvement of defense personnel in the process of making decisions on national security issues, commitment to better coordination between military, intelligence, bureaucracy, and the political leadership.
    2. Transparency in defense procurement, corruption and the middle man to be fought, not just for transparency but also to protect India's fighting capabilities.
    3. We will encourage indigenous production and reduce dependence on foreign equipment in a short time span.
    4. Ensure effective implementation of One Rank One Pension. Ex-servicemen Contributory Health Scheme(ECHS) as a model health insurance in the county, further reforms in military justice with speedy grievance redressal mechanisms.
    5. Zero tolerance policy towards cross-border terrorism. Coordinate bilateral and multilateral efforts to prosecute terrorists and for a better border management. Call for sustained dialog at various levels to dismantle the structures that encourage terrorism.
    6. Creating locally responsive structures of policing, security and governance while working towards long-term solution of effective decentralization and devolution of power. Modernized, better equipped security forces.
    7. The government must abandon the use extra-constitutional methods and ensure that there are checks and balances against misuse of authority.

These were the key goals and aims **AAP** had in their 2014 General Elections manifesto.

Please leave your key thoughts about **AAP Manifesto** in the comments section below.
