---
title: "AAP Manifesto 2019"
date: 2019-04-26
lastmod: 2019-04-26
type: post
discussionId: "AAP_2019"
disable_comments: false
categories:
  - manifesto
tags:
  - AAP
  - 2019
draft: false
---

**AAP** has released their **manifesto** for the **General Elections of 2019** which is happening in 7 phases between 11 April to 19 May.

Here, I will note down some of policies and goals **AAP** has led down for their 2019 **General Elections**.

1.  #### FULL STATEHOOD FOR DELHI

    1.  ##### Land

        a. Allocate land to build hundreds of Schools and Colleges will ensure:

            - Free, guaranteed schooling facilities for all children in the age group of 3 to 18 years(nursery to 12th) residing in Delhi.
            - All students securing above 60% marks in class 12 from Delhi schools will be guaranteed admission in a college.

        b. Build new Mohalla clinics to provide for Universal Healthcare at the doorstep(within 1km) of each citizen.
        c. Expansion of existing hospitals and build new hospitals to create provision for thousand of additional beds.
        d. Every single family in Delhi will be able to own their own house in 10 years. '
        e. Additional bus depots and terminals to cater to all the extra buses that Delhi needs.
        f. Ensure a congestion free Delhi by removal of road encroachments and improving road design.

    2.  ##### Law and Order

        a. Take all steps necessary to make Delhi the safest city in India for women. All cases of crime against woman to be tried by Fast Track courts.
        b. Improve the conviction rate for all crimes in Delhi, especially against women which is currently at 19%
        c. Ensure higher and equitable distribution of PCR across Delhi so that the response time of a PCR to reach a caller anywhere in Delhi is less than 5 minutes.
        d. Revive the Anti-Corruption Bureau(ACB) just like we did in the 49 days government to break the corruption in Delhi.

    3.  ##### Police

        a. Make Delhi Police accountable to the people of Delhi. All ground personnel will be equipped with Police Body Cameras and CCTVs will be installed in all corners of police stations.
        b. Fill nearly 2/3rd of the posts vacant in Delhi Police and ensure reservation of 33% of the posts for women.
        c. Professionalization of police force by providing world-class skills training on advance methods of policing and modern infrastructure.
        d. Initiate long-pending police reforms as directed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the matter of Prakash Singh versus Union of India,2006.

    4.  ##### Control Over Officials and Decision Making

        a. Fill existing vacancies of over 2 lakh government jobs in Delhi Police, Education, Health Department etc with 85% reservation for residents of Delhi.
        b. Ensure there is zero tolerance to corruption by government functionaries.
        c. Set up Delhi Public Service Commission for recruitment of state level cadre of civil servants other than those of All India Services.
        d. As many as 14 bills passed by the Delhi Assembly in last 4 years have been waiting consent from the Central government. With full statehood, no approval or concurrence will be needed once the Delhi Assembly passes laws on any subject mentioned in State list. We will enact:

            - All 14 bills pending for consent with the Central government. This includes the Jan Lokpal bill.
            - A model Mohalla Sabha bill that will bring in true decentralization and Swaraj for every aam aadmi.

2.  #### HEALTH

    1. With control over land, AAP shall undertake a large scale expansion of existing hospitals and build new hospitals to increase bed capacity in Delhi.
    2. We shall ensure appointment of adequate number of doctors and paramedical staff for all health facilities in Delhi.
    3. With control over local bodies, AAP government will ensure convergence between the Municipal healthcare system and the state healthcare system.
    4. With enough statehood, we will build enough new mohalla clinics to provide accessible healthcare at the doorstep(within 1 km) of every resident in Delhi.

3.  #### WOMEN SAFETY

    1. We will ensure 33% reservation for women in all posts under Delhi Police. Efforts will be made to engage women in active policing roles.
    2. **Establish protocols**: Police protocols and procedures for effective response to crimes against women will be set up, strictly implemented and communicated to public to foster greater trust in reporting among women.
    3. **CAW cell in each Police Station**: Each Police station will have a trained CAW(Crimes Against Women) cell with specially trained and sensitized investigate officers and counselors operating in shifts. The cell will provide free legal assistance to victim.
    4. 50 fast track courts will be set up to provide faster trails in cases concerning crimes against women.
    5. Massive scale gender sensitization programmes will be launched for police personnel at all levels. The Police will be given special training to deal with sexual offenses appropriately.
    6. Preventive rather than punitive role of the police will be strengthened. Transformative campaigns will be organized by police to engage with communities on issues of equitable gender attitudes, reduction in perpetration behaviour and promotion of legal awareness. Community policing will be developed by providing training to volunteers.
    7. Periodic systematic safety review and audit of public spaces by the police in collaboration with community. Increased and regular patrolling by women police personnel will be initiated at vulnerable sites like bus terminals, auto stands and metro stations.

4.  #### POLICE REFORMS

    1. **Fill vacancies in police force**: Delhi Police is highly understaffed with 2/3 of the positions lying vacant. AAP will ensure all the vacant posts are filled, along with a 33% reservation for women.
    2. **Response time for PCR Vans to be 5 minutes**: Increase in the patrolling of police and greater presence of PCR vans will be ensured in proportion to the population in a particular area. The response time for PCR to reach to complainant at any place in Delhi will be 5 minutes.
    3. **World Class Skills Training**: Major initiative shall be taken for professionalization of police force by providing world-class skills training on advance methods of policing.
    4. **Modernize police infrastructure**: Greater funding will be set aside for modernization of police infrastructure. Improved working conditions for the police force will be ensured so that they can pursue their duties without stress.
    5. ** Transparency and Professionalism**: We will establish greater transparency in public dealing by police. All ground personnel will be equipped with Police Body Cameras and CCTVs will be installed in all corners of police stations.
    6. **Citizen Participation**: We will revive Thana-level citizen committees comprising of elected representatives, RWAs, women's organizations and others for closer interaction and better understanding between police and local communities.

5.  #### ZERO CORRUPTION

    1. **Jan Lokpal Bill**: We will promulgate the Jan Lokpal Bill to give Delhi the most effective Lokpal, who can investigate any officers or minister, including the Chief Minister.
    2. **Anti Corruption Branch**: We will revive the ACB just like we did in the 49 days government and in the first few months of the present AAP government to break the spine of corruption in Delhi.
    3. **Establish Benchmarks**: A new citizen's charter shall be created which will list down the actions and conduct of public functionaries that will be deemed as corrupt practice.
    4. **Right to time bound delivery of service**: We will bring into force a law to guarantee a citizen's right to time bound delivery of public services, failing heavy penalties will be imposed on erring officials.

6.  #### JOBS

    1. **Recruitment for 2 lakh government jobs**: We will fill over 2 lakh vacancies in Delhi Police, Education, Health Department etc. within a year with 85% reservation for the youth of Delhi.
    2. **Reform SSB**: We will reform Delhi Subordinate Services Selection Board(DSSSB) as a professionally run body to complete any recruitment process within 6 months of requisition by the Departments.
    3. We will create Delhi's own Public Service Commission within a year for recruitment of state level cadre of civil servants other than those of All India Service.
    4. We will establish Delhi as the nation's hub for new-age digital skills and entrepreneurship through setting up of knowledge Parks and 'Start Up' Centers where entrepreneurs can get financial assistance, skill trainings, and free space to operate their new businesses.

7.  #### EDUCATION
    1. Every child in Delhi will be entitled to free, world class education from Nursery to Class 12(age 3-18 years), so that she/he can become happy,aware and capable citizen.
    2. Students of Delhi Schools securing more than 60% marks in Class 12 shall get guaranteed admission in a college as a regular student.
    3. In every college of Delhi, 85% seats will be reserved for the residents of Delhi.
    4. Build new schools and colleges and recruit regular teachers as per the requirement to provide quality education in accordance with new law.
    5. All existing Guest teachers serving the schools of Delhi government shall be regularized.
    6. New Medical and Engineering colleges shall be started to increase the annual intake by 10,000.
    7. A 200 point roster will be implemented for higher education institutes(Universities and Colleges).

These are the promises that AAP made in general election of 2019.

If you want to read what else promised by AAP in year 2019, You can go through [their manifesto][1].

Please leave your thoughts behind in the comment section below.

[1]: https://s3://thepolicy/manifesto/AAP_manifesto_2019.pdf
