---
title: "BJP Manifesto 2019"
date: 2019-04-09
type: post
discussionId: "BJP_2019"
disable_comments: false
categories:
  - manifesto
tags:
  - BJP
  - 2019
draft: false
---

**BJP** has realeased their **manifesto** on 08-04-2019 for the **General Elections of 2019** which is going to happen in 7 phases between 11 April to 19 May.

Here, I will note down some of the policies and goals **BJP** has led down for there 2019 **General Elections**:

1.  #### GOOD GOVERNANCE

    1. We are committed to the idea of simultaneous elections for Parliament, State assemblies and local bodies to reduce expenditure, ensure efficient utilization of government resources and security forces and for effective policy planning. We will try to build consensus on this issue with all parties.
    2. **Single Voter List**: In order to ensure that every citizen gets the right to exercise his/her franchise for all public bodies and to avoid confusion created by multiple voter lists, we will strive to ensure common voter list for all elections.
    3. To transform India into a developed nation, we need to work with the guiding principle of **Minimum Government and Maximum Governance** and we will bring reform in the Civil Services and implement it in a manner to achieve the same. In order to ensure better implementation, we will merge similar and complementary departments into sectoral ministries.
    4. We will continue to implement the **Rashtriya Gram Swaraj Abhiyan** in a focused manner to build the capacities of members of Panchayat Raj Institutions and ensure effective delivery of schemes at the grassroots.
    5. Police is the most basic and key functionary affecting the people's life. Our Present police and policing is based upon the colonial police force and there is need to change it. We will formulate a **Model Police Act** in consultation with the States to have a pro-people citizen friendly police.
    6. We will work towards simplifying procedural laws, encouraging mediation and strengthening judicial and court management system in order to increase accessibility.
    7. **Making India the centre of arbitration**: We will increase the number of Alternative Dispute Resolution forums to ensure avenues for quick disposal of matters. We will also take necessary steps to make India a hub of arbitration services.
    8. In order to establish India as a hub of financial services, we will expedite the enactment of legislation for creating an **International Financial Service Centre Authority** which will put in place a robust framework.
    9. We will set up a committee for **Easing Citizen's Interaction with Government(CECIG)** to work with experts in reforming citizen's interface with Government across domains such as taxes, business compliance, rules and regulations for greater simplicity and ease.

2.  #### HEALTH FOR ALL

    1. While providing annual health cover of Rs. 5 lakh to 10.74 crore poor families under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana under Ayushman Bharat, we also initiated a programme to setup 1,50,000 Health and Wellness Centres(HWCs) by 2022. Till date 17,150 HWCs have become functional. We will take up the programme of HWCs to next level. We will target provisioning of telemedicine and diagnostic laboratory facilities at these HWCs by 2022 to ensure quality primary medical care to the poor at their doorstep.
    2. We will create an essential devices list and a separate pricing policy for medical devices to ensure their accessibility and affordability to masses.
    3. With our initiatives, we have successfully reached the stage of ensuring one Medical College for every three Parliamentary Constituencies. We will take it forward and set up one Medical College or Post Graduate Medical College in every district through public or private participation, by 2024.
    4. We will also accelerate the reforms in paramedical education sector so as to increase the availability of nurses, pharmacists and other paramedical personnel.
    5. We will endeavor to make the National Nutrition Mission a mass movement and strengthen infrastructure and capacity in all Anganwadis.
    6. Tuberculosis claims more lives every year than any other infectious disease. As of today, mode than 25 lakhs citizens are suffering from TB while over 3 lakhs persons die due to TB every year. The disease mainly affects the poor and malnourished. We have rolled out a Special Mission to eliminate TB from India by 2025. We will ensure this becomes a success much ahead of the target given in Sustainable Development Goals(SDGs).

3.  #### EDUCATION FOR ALL

    1. Having achieved access and equity in school education, our emphasis will now be on quality of learning. We have already identified learning outcomes for various classes and our priority in the next five years will be to ensure that children achieve these learning outcomes. We will focus on teachers training and capacity as a key factor in achieving these learning outcomes.
    2. We consider it our duty to provide a conducive environment for talented children in our country to facilitate them to unleash their talent. For this, we will initiate **Prime Minister Innovative Learning Program** to bring together such children for a certain period in a year in one place from all over the country and provide them with facilities and resources for them to excel. This would instill a culture of lateral thinking and innovation among them.
    3. We will establish **National Institutes of Teacher's** training. These institutions would provide four-year integrated courses that would set the standards for quality teachers in our schools. We will also motivate States to replicate this model as it is our firm belief that quality teachers lay foundation of quality learning.
    4. **Kendriya Vidayalas** and **Navodaya Vidayalas** have done yeoman service in the field of school education. In order to cater to the demands of more such schools, we aim to open another 200 such schools by 2024.
    5. We will take necessary steps to increase the number of seats in Central Law, Engineering, Science and Management institutions by atleast 50% in next five years. We will also motivate States to accordingly increase the number of seats in State institutions.
    6. While we have world-class Technology, Science and Medical institutions, the same needs to be replicated in other areas. We will set up an Arts, Culture and Music University with a focus on fine arts such as music and dance. We will also open a state-of-the-art Hospitility and Tourism University and a Police University.
    7. We will consciously promote a programme for **Study in India**, Which will focus on bringing foreign students to study in higher educational institutions in our country and make India a major destination for education for foreign students.
    8. To ensure innovation and quality research, we will incentivise the industry to collaborate with our scientific labs and technological institutions, to undertake research in cutting-edge technology and science.

4.  #### WOMEN EMPOWERMENT

    1. The gains made under our pioneering **Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao** programme have been impressive. We are committed to continue to build on thes gains to provide accessible and affordable quality education to all women. We will ensure that ample financial support is available to girls through out their education and subsidized education loans are provided for higher education.
    2. We are committed to make women equal partners in and equal beneficiaries of the progress and prosperity of the nation and will formulate a comprehensive "Women in Workforce" roadmap focused on dramatically increasing the female workforce participation rate over the next five years.
    3. To generate better work opportunities for women, 10% material to be sourced for government procurement will be done from MSMEs having at least 50% women employees in their workforce. This will cover various import substitution items including, but not limited to, apparel, leather, paper, wood, articles, stone items like idol, etc, plastic and rubber items, furniture, clocks, toys etc.
    4. To ensure greater participation of women in the workforce, it is necessary to enable them to continue in the workforce by providing support for child care. We will now strengthen the creche programme with special focus on the needs of parents employed in the unorganized sector to provide creche and child care facilities by leveraging the existing Anganwadis, civil society organizations and the private sector. We will ensure the number of child care facilities is increased three fold by 2022.
    5. Continue our efforts to ensure safe motherhood through schemes such as Pradhan Mantri Matru Vandana Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Matritva Suraksha Abhiyaan and Ayushman Bharat, we will focus on ensuring good quality, easy accessible and affordable maternal healthcare services for all women.
    6. We will ensure all reproductive and menstrual health services are easily available to all women across India and with the expansion of ongoing Suvidha scheme, sanitary pads at an affordable cost of just Rs.1 will be provided to all women and girls.
    7. We are committed to ensure the welfare of widows of defense personnel who were killed in action. We will formulate a dedicated programme for the creation of work opportunities, provide skill training and strengthen social security mechanism for windows of our Martyrs.

5.  #### INCLUSIVE DEVELOPMENT

    1. We are committed to ensure benefits of constitutional provisions of the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and backward classes. We will ensure that proper representation and opportunities are available for these sections.
    2. To ensure that quality education is available and easy accessible, every block with more than 50% ST population and at least 20,000 tribal persons will have an **Eklavya Model Residential School**. Eklavya Schools will be at par with Navodaya Vidayalas and besides providing state of the art training in sports and skill development, these schools will have special facilities for preserving local art and culture.
    3. Continue our efforts to promote social and political empowerment, we will ensure that the rights of all forest dwellers are fully protected.
    4. We will establish 50,000 **Van Dhan Vikas Kendras** in the tribal areas of the country to ensure the availability pf primary processing and value addition for forest produce and to provide employment for tribals and increase tribal income.
    5. We will make adequate provisions for personal safety equipment and accelerate the adoption of mechanized cleaning to ensure occupational health and safety for Safai Karamcharis.
    6. We are committed to bringing down the percentage of families living below the poverty line to a single digit in the next five years.
    7. We will ensure pucca houses for families either living in kuccha houses or without access to housing by 2022.

6.  #### INDIA AS THE WORLD'S 3RD LARGEST ECONOMY

    1. India was branded as **fragile five** in 2014. Within five years we have turned into a bright spot that is not only the fastest growing major economy of the world but also enjoys macroeconomic stability. We have already become world's sixth largest economy and will soon be among top five. We aspire to make India the largest economy of the world by 2030. This implies that we commit to make India a US $5 trillion economy by 2025 and US $10 trillion economy by 2032.
    2. Our economic policy has been guided by the principle of lowering the tax rate and improving compliance; thereby broadening of the tax base. With increased compliance and increased tax base, the tax to GDP ratio has reached 12%, highest in the recent past, up from 10.1% in 2013-14. This increased revenue has been deployed for benefits to the poor and creation of infrastructure at an unprecedented level. We will continue with our policy in the similar manner - lowering of tax rate thereby rewarding honest tax payers and improving compliance.
    3. While social security net for the poor and farmers will be expanded, we will take up capital investment in the country to a new height. By 2024, we will make capital investment of Rs.100 lakh crore in infrastructure sector. We recognize that investment driven growth requires cheaper cost of capital. By anchoring inflation at 4% and cleaning up our banking system we have created the space for structural reduction in the cost of capital. This will not only help infrastructure investment but investment in wider economy.
    4. **Making India a global manufacturing hub**: as we position India as a global manufacturing hub over the next five years, we will take the following steps:
       1. **Top 50 Ranking in Ease of Doing Business Index**: In the last 4 years, India has climbed 65 places in the World Bank's Ease of Doing Business Index. We will further work in this direction to take the country's ranking into the top 50.
       2. **Strengthening Companies Act**: In order to incentivize compliance of law and ease of doing business, we will amend the Companies Act to impose civil liability for technical and procedural defaults of a minor nature thus unclogging the majority of the cases from the courts.
       3. **New Industrial Policy**: We will announce a new industrial policy to improve competitiveness of manufacturing and services with an eye on **Industry 4.0** in order to gear up for technologies like artificial intelligence and electric mobility. Special efforts will be made for MSMEs.

7.  #### INDUSTRY, ENTREPRENEURSHIP AND STARTUPS

    1. A special package was launched by government to boost the MSME sector. The Credit Guarantee Scheme of the Government of India is an important component wherein loans to MSME are guaranteed. Under this alone, the credit of around Rs.19,000 crore was achieved in 2017-18. We would aim to take this figure to Rs.1,00,000 crore by 2024.4
    2. Technology access and upgradation are key elements in the MSME sector. Our government has taken a major step in expanding of **Technology Centres** and we would achieve more than 150 such centres all over country by 2024. They will expose MSMEs to Artificial Intelligence, Robotics, Internet of Things, Virtual Reality, Blockchain technology and Zero Defect Zero Effect.
    3. The Technology Centres, other skilling centres of MSMEs and NSICs incubation centres alone would provide focused and high level skilling to more tha 6 lakh people per year.
    4. We will establish National Traders Welfare Board and create a National Policy for Retail Trade for the growth of retail businesses.
    5. To protect the interests of small traders, we will provide an accident insurance of 10 lakh rupees to all traders registered under GST.
    6. To encourage the spirit of entrepreneurship amongst the youth, we will launch a new scheme to provide collateral-free credit upto 50 lakh for entrepreneurs. We will guarantee 50% of loan amount for female entrepreneurs and 25% for male entrepreneurs.
    7. We will continue to promote and encourage Startups through creation of a **Seed Startup Fund** of Rs.20,000 crore.
    8. We will support entrepreneurial ventures started by individuals from Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, Other Backward Communities, or Economically Weaker Sections and take forward **Stand Up India** initiative.
    9. We will set-up new **Entrepreneurial Northeast** scheme to provide support to the micro, small and medium industries and for employment generation in the Northeastern states.

8.  #### INTERNAL, EXTERNAL AND SOCIAL SECURITY
    1. Our security doctrine will be guided by our national security interest only. We will firmly continue our policy of **Zero Tolerance** against terrorism and extremism and we will follow our policy of giving free hand to our security forces in combating terrorism.
    2. We will speed up the purchases of outstanding defense related equipments and weapons. In order to equip the Armed Forces with modern equipments, we will continue to take focused steps to strengthen the strike capability of the Armed Forces.
    3. We will continue to take forward the process of modernizing the Central Armed Police Forces to further increase their capacity and readiness and enable them effectively combat internal security challenges.
    4. We will provide assistance to the states to upgrade their police forces through the **Scheme for Modernization of Police Forces**. We will encourage expedited police reforms in the states so as to enable the State police forces to deal with new types of crimes like cyber crime and help them to be more sensitive to the citizens, especially weak and vulnerable sections of society.
    5. We will focus on creation of developmental and other necessary infrastructure in border areas to ensure that border security is strengthened, and to enable increased participation of and benefits for border areas in the country's development and progress.

These are the Key Goals and Promises made by **Bhartiya Janta Party** before 2019 General Elections.

Please leave your key thoughts about BJP manifesto in the comments section below.
