---
title: "BJP Manifesto 2014"
date: 2019-04-02
type: post
discussionId: "BJP_2014"
disable_comments: false
categories:
- manifesto
tags:
- bjp
- 2014
draft: false
---

So what does **MANIFESTO** means - _A public declaration of intent, policies, aims, beliefs etc, as issued by the political
parties before the election._

Why do **Political Parities Need Manifesto** - _Manifesto functions as both a statement of a principles and a bold, sometimes
rebellious call to action. By causing people to evaluate the gap between those principles and their current reality, the manifesto challenges assumptions, fosters commitment, and provokes change._

Here, I will list down the notable policies and aims that **Bhartiya Janta Party** had put in front of people for 2014 General Elections:

1.  #### AGENDA FOR SOCIO-ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL TRANSFORMATION :

    1. Vibrant and Participatory **Democracy**.
    2. Empowered and Inspired **People**.
    3. **Quality Life** in Villages and Cities, Basic **Amenities** to all.
    4. Flourishing **Agriculture**, Productive **Youth** and Involved **Women**.
    5. Robust physical and social **Infrastructure**, Innovative and Technology driven **Society**.
    6. Global competitive **Economy** and **Brand India** based on **Quality**.
    7. Build Modern India where people of all communities come forward for their own development and development of country.

2.  #### ATTEND THE IMMINENT:

    1. ##### PRICE RISE:

       1. The Bhartiya Janta Party will establish **Special Courts** to stop hoarding and black marketing.
       2. The bhartiya Janta Party will bring ordinance for **Price Stabilization Fund**.
       3. We will use technology to disseminate **Real time Data** to farmers.

    2. ##### EMPLOYMENT:

       1. The Bhartiya Janta Party will develop high impact domains like-Labour-intensive Manufacturing and Tourism across whole India.
       2. We will transform Employment Exchanges into **Career Centers**.

    3. ##### FIGHTING CORRUPTION:

       1. The Bhartiya Janta Party will establish system which eliminates the **Scope of Corruption**.
       2. Ensure e-Governance, making it transparent and minimizing citizen-government interface.
       3. We will bring System-based, policy-driven governance - minimizing discretion.
       4. The Bhartiya Janta Party will assemble the **Task Force** for tracking and bringing back the Black Money.
       5. We will Pro-actively engage with the **foreign Governments** to facilitate information sharing on Black Money.

3.  #### WOMEN EMPOWERMENT

    1. **Beti Bachao-Beti Padao**(Save Girls, Educate Girls) national campaign for saving girl child and educating her.
    2. Comprehensive schemes to encourage positive attitude amongst families towards the girl child.
    3. We will bring **Women health-care** - especially focusing on domains of Nutrition and Pregnancy
    4. Establish dedicated **Women ITIs** + Women wings in other ITIs.
    5. We will bring in strict implementation of law for **Rape + Acid Attacks** victims.
    6. The Bhartiya Janta Party will establish Women friendly **Police Stations**.

4.  #### YOUTH AND STUDENT AGENDA:

    1. Youth Participation in decision-making - **National Youth Advisory Council**.
    2. The Bhartiya Janta Party will bring **Young Leaders programme** + **Youth Parliaments** for vibrant communities.
    3. We will establish a system where student loans will become simpler and affordable.
    4. We will ensure Sports culture at school level - made compulsory part of school curriculum.
    5. National program for identifying and training extraordinary sporting talent.

5.  #### PROTECTING THE INTERESTS OF LABOURS:

    1. The Bhartiya Janta Party will bring in a system to create Harmonious relationship between labour and the industry -'Industry Family'.
    2. We will bring in special **Identity Cards** for unorganized labourers sector - quality **Health** and **Education** services + **Skilling**.
    3. Access to modern Financial Services to labour - including dedicated Workers Bank.
    4. Strengthen **Pension** and **Health Insurance** safety nets for all

6.  #### EDUCATION AND SKILLS:

    1. The Bhartiya Janta Party will create **Equality of Opportunity** in 'access' and 'success' to all learners.
    2. We will raise the **Public spending** on education and skills development to 6% of total GDP.
    3. We will bring in a system for Performance Audit and Real-time Information on Primary Education.
    4. National e-Library - to empower school teachers and students.
    5. Develop India as a Knowledge Powerhouse and focus on need-based skill development and Employment.
    6. **Skill Mapping** - scientifically identify and plan national human resource development for every sector,both established and emerging.
    7. Emphasis on **soft skills** to enhance employability - national program for **computer literacy**.

7. #### PHYSICAL INFRASTRUCTURE:

    1. The Bhartiya Janta Party will do **Rural Rejuvenation** - integrated strategies for personal, economic and social well being. We will **Rurban** - bring urban amenities to rural areas, while retaining the soul of the village.
    2. We will bring roads, water, education, health, supply chain, electricity, broadband to all villages of India.
    3. We will build 100 smart cities - focused on specialized domains.
    4. **Cleanliness** and **Sanitation** prioritized – integrated infrastructure rolled out in Model towns.
    5. Wi-Fi facilities made available in public places and commercial centers, GIS- based mapping - for scientific, strategic and long term town planning.

8.  #### INTERNAL, EXTERNAL AND SOCIAL SECURITY:

    1. Specially-abled: Web based disability registration system - identify every special needs person. Disabled friendly access to public facilities and places. Higher tax relief for family.
    2. Children: Reduce burden of books on children without compromising on quality of education - using technology. Special emphasis on vulnerable children - migrants, street dwellers, specially-abled.
    3. Comprehensive national security – borders, military, economic, cyber, energy, food, water, health and social cohesion and harmony.Strengthen Civil Defense and Home Guards - for community defense and disaster management, National plan in consultation with state Governments - to address Maoist insurgency.Deal with cross border terrorism with a firm hand is our top priority.
    4. We Will start R&D in defense - developing indigenous defense technologies. We will bring Global platform for defense hardware manufacture and software production. We will maximize technology transfer in defense manufacturing.
    5. The Bhartiya Janta Party will implement One rank, One pension and also build War Memorial to recognize and honor gallantry of our soldiers.

These were the Key Goals and Promises made by **Bhartiya Janta Party** before 2014 General Elections.

Please leave your key thoughts about BJP manifesto in the comments section below.
