---
title: "CPI Manifesto 2019"
date: 2019-05-05
draft: false
type: post
discussionId: "CPI_2019"
disable_comments: false
description: "Communist Party Of India Marxist released there manifesto for general election 2019"
categories:
- manifesto
tags:
- cpi
- communist party india
- 2019
---

<span class="w3-tooltip w3-sand">CPI<span style="position:absolute;left:0px;bottom:18px" class="w3-text w3-tag w3-round w3-pale-blue">Communist Party of India</span></span> released their manifesto on <u>3rd April 2019</u> for the general election of 2019.

Here we will list down some of the key points from there manifesto -

1. #### Education
    1. Public expenditure on education to be 6 per cent of GDP. 
    2. Academic excellence and professional competence will be the sole criteria for all appointments to bodies like Universities, the Indian Council for Historical Research, Indian Council for Social Science Research, University Grants Commission, National Council for Educational Research and Training, etc. A review committee of experts will be set up to address the communalisation of the school syllabus.
    3. Implementing the Right to Education Act to provide free and compulsory elementary education; amending the RTE to institutionalise the concept of neighborhood schooling, extending it beyond the elementary level and providing free education for all continuing students; ensuring **every school is RTE compliant by 2022**.
    4. Expanding secondary education to reduce dropouts and making it universal; improving quality of education and infrastructure in SSA schools, allowing flexibility of rules, timing and other aspects to ensure retention of girl students and pupils in backward areas and for otherwise marginalized groups.
    5. Enacting legislation to **regulate fees, admissions and curricula** in private educational institutions.

2. #### Health
    1. Make the right to free health care justiciable through the enactment of appropriate legislations both at Central and State levels. 
    2. Public expenditure on health to be raised to at least 3.5 per cent in the short term and 5 per cent of the GDP in the long term, which would include a significantly enhanced allocation from the Centre.
    3. Immediately and effectively reversing the trend of privatisation of health care services and outsourcing of services through PPPs.
    4. Strengthening, expanding and reorienting the public health system so that it is accountable to local communities and guarantees free and easy access to a range of comprehensive health care services. Build and actively promote a predominantly public health system based framework for the provision of universal health care. **Scrap the PMJAY under the ‘Ayushman Bharat’ scheme based on the discredited ‘insurance model’.**
    5. Regulating the private health care sector, especially the corporate owned hospital sector through urgent and stringent measures. Bring them under the Clinical Establishment Act. Modify the National Clinical Establishment Act, 2010 to ensure observance of patients’ rights; regulation of the rates and quality of various services.

3. ####  Equal Rights and Social Justice For Women
    1. Enacting the **33 per cent Women’s Reservation Bill** to reserve one-third seats in Parliament and State Assemblies for women immediately.
    2. Scrap ordinance criminalising triple talaq.
    3. Enact a law for **equal rights in marital and inherited property for all women**; strengthen laws relating to maintenance for women and children; ensure protection and adequate maintenance and rehabilitation for all deserted women including those who are victims of instantaneous talaq.
    4. Accepting the Verma Committee recommendations which have been left out of the present amended law; changes in educational curricula to include subjects related to gender equality; steps to make public spaces safer for women; ensuring safe access to all public places for women with disabilities.
    5. Increasing allocations for women in all gender budgeting to at least forty per cent of allocations from the present claims of 30 per cent.

4. #### In Defence of the Rights of the Working People:
    1. Ensuring that **statutory minimum wage for workers is not less than Rs. 18,000**; minimum wage to be linked to the Consumer Price Index; wage fixation to be based on 15th ILC recommendations.
    2. Periodic wage revision to all Central PSU workers without insisting any affordability condition; immediate resolution of the issues of the central government employees related to the recommendations of the 7th Pay Commission.
    3. Scrapping of the “New Pension Scheme” and the PFRDA Act and putting in place a benefit-defined pension scheme with adequate funding by employers and government for all workers/employees ensuring at least a pension of 50 per cent of last pay drawn with indexation.
    4. Withdrawing  the  Motor  Vehicle  (Amendment)  Bill;  providing  social security to unorganized transport workers.
    5. Improving the legislation on Unorganized Sector Workers and implementing the recommendations of the Standing Committee on Labour in this regard; special social security measures for migrant workers and plantation workers, amending the law to move away from rigid  industrial and occupational classification of Boards with a single window access for all workers.

5. #### Foreign Policy:
    1. An independent and non-aligned foreign policy, promoting multi-polarity. Strengthen BRICS, SCO and IBSA. Reactivise SAARC and strengthen ties with the countries in our immediate neighbourhood.
    2. Opposing interventions and regime changes imposed by the United States as is happening in Venezuela and in many countries in Latin America.
    3. Strengthening relations with West Asia and South East Asia and establishing close ties with the Community of Latin American and Caribbean countries (CELAC).
    4. Resume dialogue with Pakistan to resolve all outstanding issues including cross-border terrorism; promote people to people relations between India and Pakistan.
    5. Reverse the pro-Israeli tilt in foreign policy.

6. #### Industry:
    1. Strengthening and expansion of the public sector in the core and strategic areas by injecting fresh capital and technology; promoting autonomy and efficiency in the public sector.
    2. Complete halt to disinvestment and privatisation of profit-making and potentially viable PSUs; give revival package to the important PSUs in the public interest.
    3. Revival and opening of sick jute mills and tea plantations.
    4. Prohibiting FDI in retail trade; regulating e-commerce, domestic corporate retailers through a licensing policy.
    5. Making Coal India Ltd. a unitary company and only agency for mining coal and supplying to industries and the customers; immediately revoke decision allowing commercial mining of coal mines.
    6. Amending SEZ Act and Rules to do away with myriad tax concessions and regulate land-use; ensuring strict implementation of labour laws in all SEZs.

If you want to read what else promised by CPI in year 2019, you can have a look at [their 2019 manifesto][1] and can visit their [website][2].

Please leave your thoughts behind in the comment section below.

[1]: https://thepolicy.s3.ap-south-1.amazonaws.com/manifesto/2019-ls-elc-manifesto.pdf
[2]: https://cpim.org/documents/election-manifesto-17th-lok-sabha-2019