---
title: "Instruction on Election Manifesto"
date: 2019-05-04
lastmod: 2019-05-10
type: post
discussionId: "EC_2015"
disable_comments: false
description: "Election Commision Of India Directive regarding manifesto of India Political Parties during election campaign"
categories:
  - manifesto
tags:
  - Election Commissioner
  - 2014
draft: false
---

### EC holds consultations with Political Parties on Manifesto Guideline

The Commission on <u>12th August 2013</u> held a meeting with representatives of National and State recognized Parties at Nirvachan Sadan, in New Delhi on formulation of guidelines for election manifestos. All the six National parties attended the meeting while, 24 State Parties participated out of 45 who were invited.

 The Chief Election Commissioner, **Shri V.S.Sampath** explained to the political parties the background. He observed that some political parties had already given their written suggestions/views on the issue while some were yet to give this to the Commission. He requested the remaining political parties to give their views in the matter within a week. Besides the Chief Election Commissioner , **Election Commissioners Shri H.S.Brahma and Dr. Nasim Zaidi** also heard the presentation made by the political parties.


#### Election manifesto - concept and relevance

A manifesto is generally defined as a published declaration of the intentions, motives or views of an individual, group, political party or government whosoever issues it. A manifesto usually comprises a previously published opinion or public consensus and/or promotes a new idea with prescriptive notions for carrying out changes for future. Thus **an election manifesto is a published document containing declaration of the ideology, intentions, views, policies and programmes of a political party**. The Election Manifestos are generally drafted by the Political Parties keeping an eye on forthcoming elections and are generally published and well publicized.


#### Observations and directions of Supreme Court

The Hon’ble Supreme Court in its judgment/order dated 5th July 2013 in SLP(C) No. 21455 of 2008 has inter alia directed the Election Commission of India to frame guidelines on election manifesto to be included as part of the Model Code of Conduct. The Supreme Court has observed and directed that :

**Para (77) of the Supreme Court Judgment:- 77)** Although, the law is obvious that the promises in the election manifesto cannot be construed as ‘corrupt practice’ under <u>Section 123 of RP Act, the reality cannot be ruled out that distribution of freebies of any kind, undoubtedly, influences all people.</u> It shakes the root of free and fair elections to a large degree. The Election Commission through its counsel also conveyed the same feeling both in the affidavit and in the argument that the **promise of such freebies at government cost disturbs the level playing field and vitiates the electoral process** and thereby expressed willingness to implement any directions or decision of this Court in this regard.

**Para (78) :-78)** As observed in the earlier part of the judgment, this Court has limited power to issue directions to the legislature to legislate on a particular issue. However, the Election Commission, in order to ensure level playing field between the contesting parties and candidates in elections and also in order to see that the purity of the election process does not get vitiated, as in past been issuing instructions under the Model Code of Conduct. The **fountainhead of the powers under which the commission issues these orders is Article 324 of the Constitution, which mandates the commission to hold free and fair elections**. It is equally imperative to acknowledge that the Election Commission cannot issue such orders if the subject matter of the order of commission is covered by a legislative measure.

**Para (79):- 79)** Therefore, considering that there is no enactment that directly governs the contents of the election manifesto, we hereby direct the Election Commission to frame guidelines for the same in consultation with all the recognized political parties as when it had acted while framing guidelines for general conduct of the candidates, meetings, processions, polling day, party in power etc. In the similar way, a separate head for guidelines for election manifesto released by a political party can also be included in the Model Code of Conduct for the Guidance of Political Parties & Candidates. **We are mindful of the fact that generally political parties release their election manifesto before the announcement of election date, in that scenario, strictly speaking, the Election Commission will not have the authority to regulate any act which is done before the announcement of the date. Nevertheless, an exception can be made in this regard as the purpose of election manifesto is directly associated with the election process.**

**Para (80) :- 80)** We hereby direct the Election Commission to take up this task as early as possible owing to its utmost importance. **We also record the need for a separate legislation to be passed by the legislature in this regard for governing the political parties in our democratic society.**

#### Existing Model Code of Conduct- relevant provisions

The current model code of conduct contains some relevant provisions on corrupt practices by parties and candidates and related to promise by the party in power etc. They are reproduced below:-

**Sub-para (4) of Para I. General Conduct** stipulates that –
“(4) All parties and candidates shall avoid scrupulously all activities which are “corrupt practices” and offences under the election law, such as **bribing of voters, intimidation of voters, impersonation of voters, canvassing within 100 meters of polling stations**, holding public meetings during the period of 48 hours ending with the hour fixed for the close of poll, and the transport and conveyance of voters to and from polling station”.

**Para VII. Party in Power** stipulates inter alia that –
The party in power whether at the Centre or in the State or States concerned, shall ensure that no cause is given for any complaint that it has used its official position for the purposes of its election campaign and in particular-
(v) Ministers and other authorities shall not sanction grants/payments out of discretionary funds from the time elections are announced by the Commission; and 
(vi)From the time elections are announced by the Commission, Ministers and other authorities shall not –

Announce any financial grants in any form or promises thereof; or
(b) (except civil servants) lay foundation stones etc., of projects or schemes of any kinds; or 
(c) Make any promise of construction of roads, provision of drinking water facilities etc; or
(d) Make any ad-hoc appointments in Government, Public Undertakings etc., which may have the effect of influencing the voters infavour of the party in power.

#### Practice in other Democracies – manifestos/policy documents by political parties – legal provisions – guidelines – regulatory mechanism – role of EMBs in enforcement
The Supreme Court in its judgment has directed the Election Commission to frame guidelines for the contents of election manifestos in consultation with all the recognized political parties. The guiding principles which will lead to framing of such guidelines are quoted below from the judgment:-

* “Although, the law is obvious that the promises in the election manifesto cannot be construed as ‘corrupt practice’ under Section 123 of RP Act, the reality cannot be ruled out that distribution of freebies of any kind, undoubtedly, influences all people. It shakes the root of free and fair elections to a large degree”.
* “The Election Commission, in order to ensure level playing field between the contesting parties and candidates in elections and also in order to see that the purity of the election process does not get vitiated, as in past been issuing instructions under the Model Code of Conduct”.
* “We are mindful of the fact that generally political parties release their election manifesto before the announcement of election date, in that scenario, strictly speaking, the Election Commission will not have the authority to regulate any act which is done before the announcement of the date. Nevertheless, an exception can be made in this regard as the purpose of election manifesto is directly associated with the election process”.

As every election get filled by manifesto announcement of political parties, we as citizen should also know what is the responisibility political parties should have when they write one.

To read more about the directive, go through [Election Commision Of India ][1] portal.

Please leave your valuable feedback, does Indian Political Parties should follow these directives and what else they should include in these directive.

[1]: https://eci.gov.in/election-manifestos/